Apache NiFi

About the tool :

1.  Apache NiFi was built to automate the flow of data between systems.
2.  The HortonWorks DataFlow , powered by Apache Nifi is an integrated
    platform to collect, conduct and curate real-time data, moving it
    from any source to any destination.
3.  Hortonworks DataFlow provides data logistics – real-time operational
    visibility and control of dataflows – enabling real-time decision
    making from the streaming data generated by a world of
    hyper-connected people, systems and things.
4.  Apache Nifi or Niagra Files supports powerful and scalable directed
    graphs of data routing, transformation, and system mediation logic.
5.  As a platform Nifi was around for 8 years at NSA before it was open
    sourced and incubated in ASF (Apache Software Foundation).

**Features :**

1)  **Guaranteed Delivery**

    -   This is achieved through effective use of a purpose-built
        persistent write-ahead log and content repository.
    -   Together they are designed in such a way as to allow for very
        high transaction rates, effective load-spreading, copy-on-write,
        and play to the strengths of traditional disk read/writes.
    -   Nifi follows “atleast once” semantics of data delivery

2)  **Data Buffering / Back Pressure and Pressure Release**

    -   NiFi supports buffering of all queued data as well as the
        ability to provide back pressure as those queues reach specified
        limits or to age off data as it reaches a specified age (its
        value has perished).

3)  **Prioritized Queuing**

    -   NiFi allows the setting of one or more prioritization schemes
        for how data is retrieved from a queue.
    -   The default is oldest first, but there are times when data
        should be pulled newest first, largest first, or some other
        custom scheme.

1)  **Flow Specific QoS (latency v throughput, loss tolerance)**

    -   There are points of a dataflow where the data is absolutely
        critical and it is loss intolerant.

2)  **Data Provenance**

    -   NiFi automatically records, indexes, and makes available
        provenance data as objects flow through the system.

3)  **Visual Command and Control**

    -   NiFi enables visual establishment of dataflows in real-time.
    -   It provides a UI based approach to build design flows.
    -    Also it allows you to add/remove data flows in an
        deployed flow.

4)  **Flow Templates**

    -   Templates allow subject matter experts to build and publish
        their flow designs and for others to benefit and collaborate
        on them.

5)  **Clustering**

    -   Use of NiFi’s site-to-site feature is also very effective as it
        is a protocol that allows NiFi and a client (could be another
        NiFi cluster) to talk to each other, share information about
        loading, and to exchange data on specific authorized ports.

6)  **Security**

    -   NiFi at every point in a dataflow offers secure exchange through
        the use of protocols with encryption such as 2-way SSL.
    -   In addition NiFi enables the flow to encrypt and decrypt content
        and use shared-keys or other mechanisms on either side of the
        sender/recipient equation.

7)  **User to system**

    -   NiFi enables 2-Way SSL authentication and provides pluggable
        authorization so that it can properly control a user’s access
        and at particular levels (read-only, dataflow manager, admin).
    -   If a user enters a sensitive property like a password into the
        flow, it is immediately encrypted server side and never again
        exposed on the client side even in its encrypted form.

Pros of Apache NiFi comparing its competitor:

1.  NiFi has interactive model, where one 'molds' the flow as the data
    continues to flow. E.g. there's no requirement to compile and deploy
    changes to the flow 'somewhere'
2.  NiFi's Provenance feature is the biggest differentiator. Think
    super-charged lineage, where complete data history is captured on
    top of lineage (not sampling, but full payloads, changes, etc.).

-   -   This enables powerful search and replay capabilities down the
        line, too.

1.  NiFi has native clustering, remote site-to-site protocol,
    backpressure, flow control, full REST API.

Cons of Apache NiFi comparing its competitor:

1.  The provenance data at present is prone to manipulation.
2.  Old user Interface
3.  No live monitoring/debugging features with per-record statistics

Which tool is being used widely in market

1.  Informatica is highly specialized in ETL and Data integration. It’s
    the market leader in ETL domain with 100% deployment rate and 94%
    customer loyalty.
2.  It is also easy to learn for any one even with very
    limited knowledge.
3.  Informatica has a lot of tools that allow you to Extract data from
    anywhere, transform any kind of data in any manner required & load
    data to any data point.
4.   It has a strong presence when working with Unstructured /
    Semi-structured as well as structured data, it has versions for
    Windows, Linux, Unix, Big Data specific OS as well as cloud


